feat(security): Add documentation section for securing Consul (#421)
edgexfoundry/edgex-docs: docs_src/security/Ch-Secure-Consul.md

# Secure Consul

> !!! edgey "EdgeX 2.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! edgey "EdgeX 2.0"
    Secure Consul is new in EdgeX 2.0
```

## Introduction

> In the current EdgeX architecture, `Consul` is pre-wired as the default agent service mainly for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current EdgeX architecture, `Consul` is pre-wired as the default agent service for
```

Author: i am ok to remove `mainly`. the main reason I added mainly is that Consul can also do `Service Discovery` as it serves `service mesh` agent in that case but we don't use that feature in EdgeX; so just FYI

`Service Configuration`, `Service Registry`, and `Service Health Check` purposes. Prior to EdgeX's

> Ireland release, the communication and configuration to `Consul` are in plain HTTP calls without any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ireland release, the communications to `Consul` uses plain HTTP calls without any
```

Author: fixed

that situation is now improved by adding required ACL token header `X-Consul-Token` in any HTTP calls.
Moreover, `Consul` itself is now bootstrapped and started with its ACL system enabled and thus provides
better authentication and authorization security features for services.  In other words, with the required
Consul's ACL token for accessing Consul, assets inside Consul like EdgeX's configuration items in Key-Value (KV)
store are now better protected.

In this documentation, we will highlight some major features incorporated into EdgeX framework system for
`Securing Consul`, including how the `Consul` token is generated via the integration of secret store
management system `Vault` with `Consul` via Vault's Consul Secrets Engine APIs.
Also a brief overview on how Consul token is governed by Vault using Consul's ACL policy associated with
a Vault role for that token is given.  Finally, EdgeX provides an easy way for getting Consul token
from `edgex-compose`'s `compose-builder` utility for better developer experiences.

## Consul access token with Vault integration

In order to reduce another token generation system to maintain, we utilize the Vault's feature of

> `Consul Secrets Engine` APIs, governed by Vault itself, and they are integrated with Consul.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Consul Secrets Engine` APIs, governed by Vault itself, and integrated with Consul.
```

Author: fixed

This agent token provides the identity for Consul service itself and access control for any
agent-based API calls from client and thus provides better security.

`security-bootstrapper` service also uses Consul's bootstrap token to generate Vault's role based from
Consul Secrets Engine API `/consul/role/<role_name>` for all internal default EdgeX services
and add-on services via environment variable `ADD_REGISTRY_ACL_ROLES`. Please see more details
and some examples in [Configuring Add-on Service documentation section](Ch-Configuring-Add-On-Services.md)
for how to configure add-on services' ACL roles.

`security-bootstrapper` then automatically associated with Consul's ACL policy rules
with this provided ACL role so that Consul token will be created or generated with that ACL rules
and hence enforced access controls by Consul when the service is communicating with it.

Note that Consul token is generated via Vault's `/consul/creds/<role_name>` API with Vault's
secretstore token and hence the generated Consul token is inherited the time-restriction nature
from Vault system itself. Thus Consul token will be revoked by Vault if Vault's token used to generate

> it gets expired. Currently in EdgeX we utilize the auto-renewal feature of Vault's token implemented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it expires or is revoked. Currently in EdgeX we utilize the auto-renewal feature of Vault's token implemented
```

Author: fixed

> in `go-mod-secrets` to keep Consul token alive and not expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in `go-mod-secrets` to keep Consul token alive and not expire.
```

Author: fixed

`Securing Consul`, including how the `Consul` token is generated via the integration of secret store
management system Vault with Consul system via Vault's Consul Secrets Engine APIs.
Also briefly give an overview on how Consul token is governed by Vault using Consul's ACL policy associated with
a Vault role for that token.  An easy way for getting a Consul token from `edgex-compose`'s `compose-builder`
utility is also given for better developer experiences.

## Consul access token with Vault integration

In order to reduce another token generation system to maintain, we utilize the Vault's feature of
`Consul Secrets Engine` APIs, governed by Vault itself, and they are integrated with Consul.
Consul service itself provides ACL system and is enabled via Consul's configuration settings like:

```hcl
acl = {
    enabled = true
    default_policy = "deny"
    enable_token_persistence = true
}
```

and this is set as part of EdgeX `security-bootstrapper` service's process.
The first main step of `security-bootstrapper` for Consul is to bootstrap Consul's ACL system.
Once Consul's ACL is successfully bootstrapped, `security-bootstrapper` stores the Consul's ACL bootstrap token

> onto the pre-configured folder under `/tmp/edgex/consul/acl-bootstrap-token` or something like that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
onto the pre-configured folder under `/tmp/edgex/consul/acl-bootstrap-token`.
```

Reviewer 2: Is that the right path?

Author: not sure, need to double check. i put this on my top of head.

```console
$ make get-consul-acl-token 
ef4a0580-d200-32bf-17ba-ba78e3a546e7
```

This output token is Consul's ACL bootstrap token and thus one can use it to login and access
Consul service's features from Consul's GUI on http://localhost:8500/ui.

From the upper right-hand corner of Consul's GUI or the "Log in" button in the center,
one can login with the obtained Consul token in order to access Consul's GUI features:

![Consul-login-GUI](consul-login.png)

![Consul-login-input](consul-login-input.png)

If the end user wants to access consul from the command line and since by default now Consul is running in
ACL enabled mode, any API call to Consul's endpoints will requires the access token
and thus one needs to give the access token into the header `X-Consul-Token` of HTTP calls.

One example using `curl` command with Consul access token to do local Consul KV store is given as follows:

```console
curl -v -H "X-Consul-Token:8775c1db-9340-d07b-ac95-bc6a1fa5fe57" -X PUT --data 'TestKey="My key values"' \
    http://localhost:8500/v1/kv/my-test-key
```

> where the Consul access token is passed into the header `X-Consul-Token` and assuming it has `written` permission

Reviewer 2: "written"  permission?

Author: tied to ACL policy. can remove the permission part if it causes confusion.

Reviewer 2: "written" sounds like bad grammar.  Are you sure it isn't "write"?

Author: ok, fixed.
